Complete Software Development Process. 

PROGRAMMING
1.Programming 
a) Software is programmed by developers in different programming languages, e.g Java, Python, Javascript. 
b) One team per app or per feature 
c) New functionality / enhancements.
d) Fix bugs. 


SOFTWARE TESTING
2. Software testing
a) Test the new features 
b) Test the old functionality/code 
c) Testing is done by devs and dedicated testers
d) Automated testing


OPERATIONS
3. Release of Software 
a) Build the application / package the application 
b) Run it on servers 
c) Upgrade the existing software 


Waterfall method (old method) 
1. Requirements (Plan everything beforehand) 
2. Development (Developers code complete app) 
3. Testing (Testing after everything has developed)
4. Operations (Plan & huge preparation for deployment)

CONS: 
1. Ineffective process 
2. over time new requirements may arise 
3. many places of failure and miscommunication 


Agile method (new method) 
1. Each feature gets tested, deployed
2. Immidiate feedback 
3. Fast & flexible development & deployment process 
4. Scrum & Kanban - specific implementations 


Agile is a practise that that helps develop an application with continuous sort iterations. 
Faster to develop the application and identify issues. 
Development, Testing and Deployment is happening pararrel. 


SCRUM (agile methodology) 
Typical 2-3 week sprints/iterations.
Sprint planning: 
1. Prioritize the tasks. (most important items)
2. Backlog - less effective items will reside in a backlog. 

Roles within Scrum 
1. Scrum Master 
2. Product Owner 
3. Scrum team 

Scrum Master - Ensures that Agile methodology is implemented properly by the team. The role is to guide and facilitate. Supports everyone in the scrum team 
Identifies blockers and help removing obstacles inside the team and address any customer concerns. 

Prodcut Owner - Represents the customer's interests and translates the vision of the project/product to the team. They are the ones adding tickets to the 
backlog. Takes lead in prioritization of the bi-weekly sprint items and what to focus on. 

Scrum team - Self organized team. Does the actual work of implementing the task of the sprint. Shares responsibility for meeting the sprint goals. Self 
managed team, can make decisions on the own.
